Add path field for RequestRedirect Filter (#2979)
nginx/nginx-gateway-fabric: site/content/how-to/traffic-management/redirects-and-rewrites.md

[HTTPRoute](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/api-types/httproute/) filters can be used to configure HTTP redirects or rewrites. Redirects return HTTP 3XX responses to a client, instructing it to retrieve a different resource. Rewrites modify components of a client request (such as hostname and/or path) before proxying it upstream.

> In this guide, we will set up the coffee application to demonstrate path URL rewriting and the tea and soda applications to showcase path-based request redirection.. For an introduction to exposing your application, we recommend that you follow the [basic guide]({{< relref "/how-to/traffic-management/routing-traffic-to-your-app.md" >}}) first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will set up the coffee application to demonstrate path URL rewriting, and the tea and soda applications to showcase path-based request redirection. For an introduction to exposing your application, we recommend that you follow the [basic guide]({{< relref "/how-to/traffic-management/routing-traffic-to-your-app.md" >}}) first.
```

{{< note >}}In a production environment, you should have a DNS record for the external IP address that is exposed, and it should refer to the hostname that the gateway will forward for.{{< /note >}}

---

## HTTP rewrites and redirects examples

We will configure a common gateway for the `URLRewrite` and `RequestRedirect` filter examples mentioned below.

---

> ### Deploy the Gateway API resources for the applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy the Gateway resource for the applications
```

The [Gateway](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/api-types/gateway/) resource is typically deployed by the [Cluster Operator](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/roles-and-personas/#roles-and-personas_1). This Gateway defines a single listener on port 80. Since no hostname is specified, this listener matches on all hostnames. To deploy the Gateway:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: gateway
spec:
  gatewayClassName: nginx
  listeners:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    protocol: HTTP
EOF
```

---

## URLRewrite example

> This examples demonstrates how to rewrite the traffic uri for a simple coffee application. A HTTPRoute resource is used to define two `URLRewrite` filters that will rewrite requests. You can verify the server responds with the rewritten uri.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This examples demonstrates how to rewrite the traffic URL for a simple coffee application. An HTTPRoute resource is used to define two `URLRewrite` filters that will rewrite requests. You can verify the server responds with the rewritten URL.
```

---

> ### Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy the coffee application
```

URI: /prices?test=v1&test=v2
```

---

## RequestRedirect example

> This example demonstrates how to redirect the traffic to a new location for a tea and soda applications. We'll examine how request redirects works using the `RequestRedirect` filter by creating four HTTPRoutes: two for redirecting requests to a new location and other two to define the destination location blocks for the redirected traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to redirect the traffic to a new location for the tea and soda applications, using `RequestRedirect` filters.
```
I don't think the extra context here is necessary.

---

### Setup

Create the **tea** and **soda** application in Kubernetes by copying and pasting the following block into your terminal:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: tea
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: tea
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: tea
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: tea
        image: nginxdemos/nginx-hello:plain-text
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: tea
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    targetPort: 8080
    protocol: TCP
    name: http
  selector:
    app: tea
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: soda
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: soda
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: soda
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: soda
        image: nginxdemos/nginx-hello:plain-text
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: soda
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    targetPort: 8080
    protocol: TCP
    name: http
  selector:
    app: soda
EOF
```

> This will create the **tea** and **soda** service and a deployment. Run the following command to verify the resources were created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create the **tea** and **soda** services and deployments. Run the following command to verify the resources were created:
```

```shell
kubectl get pods,svc
```

Your output should include the **tea**, **soda** pod and the **tea**, **soda** service:

```text
NAME                          READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
pod/soda-7c76d95586-dnc4n     1/1     Running   0          89m
pod/tea-7b7d6c947d-s8djx      1/1     Running   0          120m

NAME                 TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
service/soda         ClusterIP   10.96.230.208   <none>        80/TCP    89m
service/tea          ClusterIP   10.96.151.194   <none>        80/TCP    120m
```

---

### Configure a path redirect

> We will define two HTTPRoutes for the **tea** application: `tea`, which specifies the destination to handle redirected requests, and `tea-redirect` that redirect requests as follows:

Reviewer 2: Do we need the `tea` route? In the send traffic section we just show that the URI has been rewritten via the 302 response and Location header. We don't need a separate tea route to handle the rewritten request. For me, the `tea` route makes it confusing.

Author: I was thinking in terms of making it work end to end as an example. But I feel you are right, its bit much. Without the other routes configured for redirection it gives a 302 HTML response which I think is fine since we only care about the `Location`

```
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/soda/pepsi --include
Handling connection for 8080
HTTP/1.1 302 Moved Temporarily
Server: nginx
Date: Mon, 06 Jan 2025 22:37:22 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 138
Connection: keep-alive
Location: http://cafe.example.com:8080/flavors

<html>
<head><title>302 Found</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>302 Found</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx</center>
</body>
</html>
```

> We will define two HTTPRoutes for **tea** application: `tea`, which specifies the destination location block to handle redirected requests, and `tea-redirect` that redirect requests as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will define two HTTPRoutes for the **tea** application: `tea`, which specifies the destination to handle redirected requests, and `tea-redirect` that redirect requests as follows:
```

Reviewer: Let's also mention that this filter will only replace prefixes.

- `http://cafe.example.com/tea` to `http://cafe.example.com/organic`
- `http://cafe.example.com/tea/origin` to `http://cafe.example.com/organic/origin`

> We will also define two HTTPRoutes defined for the **soda** application: `soda`, which specifies the destination to handle redirected requests, and `soda-redirect` that redirect requests as follows:

Reviewer 2: Same comment here.

- `http://cafe.example.com/soda` to `http://cafe.example.com/flavors`

> - `http://cafe.example.com/soda/pepsi` to `http://cafe.example.com/flavors`

Reviewer 2: I think it would be helpful to point out which type of path redirect we are configuring here before showing the YAML.

> The two HTTPRoutes defined for **soda** application: `soda`, which specifies the destination location block to handle redirected requests, and `soda-redirect` that redirect requests as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will also define two HTTPRoutes defined for the **soda** application: `soda`, which specifies the destination to handle redirected requests, and `soda-redirect` that redirect requests as follows:
```

Reviewer: Let's also mention that this filter will replace the full path.

        path:
          type: ReplacePrefixMatch
          replacePrefixMatch: /organic
        port: 8080
---
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: tea
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: gateway
    sectionName: http
  hostnames:
  - "cafe.example.com"
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: /organic
    backendRefs:
    - name: tea
      port: 80
---
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: soda-redirect
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: gateway
    sectionName: http
  hostnames:
  - "cafe.example.com"
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: /soda
    filters:
    - type: RequestRedirect
      requestRedirect:
        path:
          type: ReplaceFullPath
          replaceFullPath: /flavors
        port: 8080
---
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: soda
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: gateway
    sectionName: http
  hostnames:
  - "cafe.example.com"
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: /flavors
    backendRefs:
    - name: soda
      port: 80
EOF
```

---

### Send traffic

> Using the external IP address and port for NGINX Gateway Fabric, we can send traffic to our tea and soda application to verify the redirect is successful. We will use curl's `--include` option to print the response headers (we are interested in the `Location` header) and `-L` to follow redirects, ensuring that the user fetches the final destination after encountering HTTP 3xx redirect response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the external IP address and port for NGINX Gateway Fabric, we can send traffic to our tea and soda applications to verify the redirect is successful. We will use curl's `--include` option to print the response headers (we are interested in the `Location` header) and `-L` to follow redirects, ensuring that the user fetches the final destination after encountering HTTP 3xx redirect response.
```

{{< note >}}If you have a DNS record allocated for `cafe.example.com`, you can send the request directly to that hostname, without needing to resolve.{{< /note >}}

```shell
curl -L --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea --include
```

Notice in the output that the URI has been redirected to the new location:

```text
HTTP/1.1 302 Moved Temporarily
..
Location: http://cafe.example.com:8080/organic
```

> Other examples:

Reviewer: I would add a short sentence between each of these examples to describe what each of them is doing.

Author: I do explain where the redirect would be happening in L352-360. 

And from other tutorial examples, we don't do one line explanation. So followed the same method.

Reviewer: I would still prefer something to say "this one redirects X to Y and specifies query params" or something along those lines. Having this list of code blocks to just copy/paste is a little harder to understand what's happening without analyzing each command.

```shell
curl -L --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea/type --include
```

```text
HTTP/1.1 302 Moved Temporarily
..
Location: http://cafe.example.com:8080/organic/type
```

```shell

> curl -L --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea/type\?test\=v1 --includ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -L --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea/type\?test\=v1 --include
```
